[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And so, this is also
how we create privacy, private variables,
is by storing them in a function.
There's no other way in JavaScript, we
don't have block scope like Ruby does, for
example.
We have a lot of people who take this
class who come from a Ruby background, and
that's a little bit confusing at first,
but there's only, at least at this
point in time, there is in future
generations of JavaScript, there's going
to be a keyword that will allow you to
have block scope, but for now, we don't.
Cool.
And so, I spoke a little bit
about creating scopes, about how
the variable scope is not created
until we invoke the function.
Cool.
And then, so we have these nested scopes.
How do we know which one wins?
When we have two variables
with the same name.
This is called precedence.
I like to play this game where we go
around the room and we pretend that we're
the JavaScript interpreter, and
we say what line we start in.
So, for example, what I would say,
if I was gonna do this previous example,
I would be like, okay, so I'm a JavaScript
interpreter, I just created a variable g,
I stored the stream global, then I would
see the blender, I would skip over
the blender, I would store this in memory,
skip over the blender,
then I would go down to this invocation
where I would call it with blueberry.
That's when I come into
the function body and
the function body fruit is now blueberry.
So, B is blueberry.
Then, we're saving Y as yogurt string.
Then, we see this function,
we skip over the function body
until we get to this last line here,
in which we call the function,
now at that point is when we go
into the function body and we alert
blueberries and
yogurt make a blueberry swirl.
And then, at that point,
this function is out and
then it comes out here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
it goes into the next line,
if there was a next line underneath.
So, that's kinda how just sort of like
going through how the code would run and
like a very crude understanding
of like how it's run.
So, who wants to go first, and
then we'll just go down in
line?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The first
line is the easiest one, so
it's better if you go first.
>> Grace: Thank you
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay
>> Grace: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
Grace.
>> Speaker 3: Go, Grace.
>> Grace: G is global,
I don't know what else to say about it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
you're just storing a string global in g,
yep.
And then, Jill
>> Joe: Bar one was
local?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
the next line that runs is
gonna be this line, right?
Just how it would run,
how the code is actually gonna be run.
So, you could just say,
you can just say that there's a function,
a function called go.
>> Joe: So, you store that in memory and
then you invoke
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
we skip the function body, right?
>> Joe: Yep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Skip the entire,
so this part we skip.
That's really, really important.
I'm gonna say like eight times.
But that's super important.
And then, we
>> Joe: And then,
you call go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Call go, and then,
Kim, what happens next?
>> Kim: l =
local
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
we're going to the function body,
l equals local and
then William, Jimmy William.
>> Speaker 6: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Speaker 6: [COUGH] Then,
it will be on the next slide for
the g variable which set that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, in here?
And then, Andy.
>> Andy: And
you're gonna alert g plus inside go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
And what's g?
>> Andy: G will be the local variable
in the go function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
So, it would be in here, right?
>> Andy: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great.
And then, Kevin?
>> Kevin: You're gonna alert g outside of
go?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, and then we'll,
so once this function's done running.
It's going to return back to here.
It's going to exit here and
run the next line, which is going
to alert, what is it going to say?
What is it going to say?
>> Kevin: Outside go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: With the G part.
>> Kevin: In here.
Or global
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So, this is just an example of
how the code is running to help
you understand that whatever,
whatever variable in the most
local scope wins precedence.
And that's the variable, that's the value
that's going to be printed out.
So, since G here is the most local to that
scope G is going to overwrite any memory
of any other variables if there
was any and it would alert here.
And then, the most local to
this global right is gonna be
the global G.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions
about that?
Joe?
>> Joe: Is that whole,
does go come off the stack then,
after the execution is done?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
And so, back to block scope.
Let's play the game again.
Where did we leave off?
We left off at Ben.
What's the first line?
What happens the first line?
>> Ben: Create the variable in block and
set it to false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
And then, Jake
>> Jake: I'm sorry.
He said which one?
The top.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
He said the top one.
>> Jake: Okay.
We skip that and we go to the bottom,
correct in black.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We have
this one still.
So, this is a for loop,
this isn't a function.
So, it's a little bit misleading
because it does have a block.
So, a block is defined as any
area surrounded by two parentheses,
I'm sorry, two curly brackets.
That's not an object.
So, whenever you see in JavaScript the
syntax where you have two curly brackets
and it's not an object,
that's considered a block.
In a lot of languages,
a block would define a scope, but
in JavaScript only a function block
defines the area of private scope.
So, this is the line here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Do
you know what this line does?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
No worries, so it's going to loop, right?
It's a for loop, and what this for
loop has says start at 0,
keep adding 1 to i
while i is less than 5.
So, it's gonna run whenever it's
in this body that many times.
So, it's going to set inBlock to true.
Five times.
Just to make sure that's true.
And then, what's the next thing that run,
I'm sorry, Tanner's next.
Okay.
>> Speaker 11: Next,
we found if inblock and
the console log which it's going to
pull up the false Even though, we said it
five times true because it's at a scope.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So, what is if and
block going to do?
Sorry, I skipped over that pretty quick.
>> Speaker 11: That's going to invoke
the council.log and
it'll ask you their block scope,
and then it'll add false because the other
variable in block [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Absolutely, so
this if is going to evaluate
whether end block is true or false.
And if it's true, it's going to
enter into the if block here.
And it's going to counsel that log,
is there block scope?
And this is not, so
this is gonna return the opposite,
since inBlock is true and this is not,
this is gonna evaluate to false.
So, the question is, is there block scope,
in JavaScript?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well, I don't know,
let's ask, false.
>> Speaker 12: Would it ever get
into that block though, since it's false?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's true though.
We said it's true here.
>> Speaker 12: Really?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And since, we don't
have any, so that's all the global scope,
so it's all inBlock is
just going to be true.
So, it's not private.
So, if this was a function,
if this for loop was a function,
then when we change inBlock to
true it wouldn't affect this
inBlock up here but
since we don't have block scope and
this is all operating on
the global scope that's
why we can that's why this is true here.
>> Speaker 12: So, var inBlock = false,
that's a global variable.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, they're all,
everything on this-
>> Speaker 12: Because there's no child,
there's no-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There's no function.
So, everything on this page is global.
>> Speaker 12: It's global, got it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.